---
layout: post
title: "Home Sweet Home: Cohousing at Murundaka"
date: 2012-06-14 23:32:20
---

*This article is the first of a series where we examine diverse housing situations for those who do not own their own home. We'll be examining the pros and cons of living beyond the typical sharehouse or tiny one bedroom. If you have a story about your home which you'd like to share, [contact us][1] to be featured in our series. *

 [1]: mailto:cate@greenrenters.org?subject=Housing%20feature%20for%20Green%20Renters%20blog

Have you ever lived in an area where you didn't know any of your neighbours except to say hello? What if could be different? What if you could pool resources? One way of connected people based on location is what's called cohousing, a type of intentional community composed of private houses which include adjouring shared facilities. The community is planned, owned and managed by the residents – who also share activities which may include cooking, dining, child care, gardening, and governance of the community.

In May, I visited [Murundaka][2], one of three cohousing neighbourhoods in Australia which contain low-income rental units. (There are also various configurations of cohousing which consist of owners or part owners and part renters. Located in Heidelberg, Murundaka is a modern-looking apartment complex of 18 units which houses over 40 residents including singles, couples and families of various configurations. Residents income must be below a certain threshold and rent is generally 25% of income. Murundaka is owned by Common Equity Housing Limited and was built for $8.2 million, including federal stimulus.

 [2]: http://www.communities.org.au/projects/ecohousing-heidelberg

I took a tour of the property and it's green, modern design belied any 'hippie' stereotypes of what a shared living residence would look like. A large stainless steel applianced kitchen was connected to a large glassed comfy couch filled living room/dining area which led to a large outdoor entertaining area. The possiblities for parties, gatherings, wokrshops, and enterprises such as batch cooking and jam making were plentiful and rather exciting when you're accustomed to small spaces. Gardens and outdoor eating areas were dotted around the buildings and each floor of units had its own outside areas. Residents could use an office for work or school work and a unit was available as a guest room for visiting family and friends. A communal laundry included shared washers, dryers and natural cleaning products. A library and dvd room was available for use and also for borrowing games, books and dvds for private use. There was a bike shed and space for a car share. I particularly liked the recycling room, including jars, containers, newspapers, clothing and other cast off's which others could help themselves to.

But what would it be like to live in such a place? I visited some of the units and whilst the one bedrooms were rather tiny, the two, three and four bedrooms were bigger than alot of rentals I've visited despite being designed intentionally small in recognition of the larger communal areas. Each had their own small kitchen, living, bedroom etc. The two bedrooms I visited were oddly configured with two bedrooms dissected by a sliding doored bathroom in between, the resident admitting that it would make it very difficult if she had a boyfriend due to the lack of privacy/sound proofing as she shared the unit with her young child. Living rooms had tall long window balconies but they were poorly insulated for a Melbourne winter.

I wondered how it would be to share spaces with other people. Like any home, rules and structures are necessary for Murundaka to run effectively. Everyone is required to do a number of hours of housework attending to communal areas such as the kitchen, recycling and garden. Things are written down and displayed in the shared areas. Lists are made and rules need to be followed. Things can take time and decisions need to be made with the imput of everyone. Not unlike a workplace or school environment really. During my visit, potential communal produce garden plans adorned one wall and residents had been given the opportunity to discuss what kind of garden they would like and what it would look like. The residents were committed to growing at least 10% of their food.  But it's harder to make rules about personal relations. During a tour of the property and informal presentations, one resident commented that he didn't necessarily get along with everyone, despite living in close proximity but they were harder to ignore and had to be tolerated. Another suggested that communal spaces and meant that privacy in each unit was more respected than normal. But I wondered about the amount of social interaction which was implicitly obligated, especially when one resident stressed a couple of times that 'people who wanted to go to their units and be antisocial were welcome to do so', an interesting choice of words. As one who values solitude and quiet as a means of relaxing I'm not sure how I would cope with lots of people at times. But there would also be many benefits. Murundaka has a 'compulsory (again more implicit than explicit) weekly meal, there were also many informal, more organic gathers. Single parents shared cooking duties and carpooling to school. One resident described that walking through the door into the shared space coming home from work could mean an impromtu wine and cheese evening by the fire instead of a solo dinner in one's unit.

Murundaka also has an interesting configuration of people including singles, single parents, couples, retired people, workers and students. Living with such diversity means a great opportunity to befriend people outside your own social circle or workplace. There's also something fantastic about living with others who share your views on sustainability and the environment and the desire to make the world a better place and reflect their world views in the home they live in. It's likely we'll see more configurations of co-housing, both for renters and homeowners. Already there are residential premises with shared facilites such as apartment complexes with shared gyms, swimming pools and rooftop gardens. My parents actually moved to a gated retirement village in 2011 which includes over 250 houses and shared gardens, cafes and sporting areas. By comparision, the idea of living with people who also wanted to be green seems very appealing…